---
title: What ought not be automated with AI?
author: hendler
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=842
reader_suggested_tags:
  - '["Consent","Marriage","Data Privacy","Feminism","Relationships"]'
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
 

“If you try to change it, you will ruin it. Try to hold it, and you will lose it.”  
―&nbsp;**Lao Tzu,&nbsp;**[Tao Te Ching][1]

The Matrix movies left me unsatisfied, like only Hollywood can. I felt haunted at the beginning and became hooked by curiosity. After the tear in Neo&#8217;s reality, an operatic spectacle of conflict takes four movies to reach inception. The spectacle made me feel distracted from the original truth. What truth?  
  
Today we are offered thousands of blue and red pills daily. Maybe we confront these choices or maybe we ignore them. Whether we make a choice or ignore it, it requires effort. So, if we observe a choice, we can not escape it, as even a well developed habit to ignore certain information means that we have made our ability to ignore a pattern a subconscious one. If something is subconscious, we have lost free will.  
If you choose to be more conscious, the more aware we are of the way information flows, the more a part of that system we are, regardless of what choices we make. We can not escape information reality just like we can&#8217;t escape physical reality.  
  
Our understanding of what we control and do not will become more apparent and urgent. At the extreme, chips like [Neuralink][2]&#8216;s will directly integrate with our perception. For now the augmentation is sensory (motor skills, hearing) but soon capabilities will be cognitive. [We can read thoughts with machines][3], [increasingly well][4], so we will write thoughts with machines. It&#8217;s trivial to extrapolate that entertainment will be completely engrossing, while robots handle the physical world. For this to work, maybe we just need to align AI with our values, or [use mathematical proofs][5] since we can check correctness more easily than create the logic.  
  
But I don&#8217;t know what it means to align AI if we don&#8217;t have free will. We may alter, amplify or preserve our nature, but not fracture in reality, just evolutionary. We may believe we are creative when we are painting by numbers. To alter the plan may only produce chaos; chaos so stunning we are mesmerized. I suppose we discover lines only by painting outside of them. We can not control our free will, because by definition we loose control when we do so.  
  
Our free will can not be automated, unless it already is, in which case we do not have it.  




Consentual cooperation is the only choice must accept.  
  
  
  
So where do we consent?  
I am the way I am, and I did not consent, but I work towards something.  
The state has power, and I did not consent, but I cooperate.  
  
  
**The Individual vs. the State** 

Maybe this dichotomy will collapse. Our institutions already hold sway over us. Whether you welcome it or resent it, there is conflict everywhere 



Consent  
  
Consent, relationships, emotion; the very core of our consciousness and identity can already be manipulated, and  
  
When our relationships, judgement, and  
  
Will we live in bits making tiny choices or demigods mastering the physical world. 





  
<figure class="wp-block-pullquote">

> creativity, empathy, complex decision-making under uncertainty, moral and ethical judgments, deep understanding of cultural nuances, and experiences driven by human consciousness and emotions
> 
> <cite>GPT4, on what can not be automated</cite></figure> 

Today I disagree with this output. There is only  




  
  
What keeps us special is the flaws in our biology  
  
Consent can be manufactured. And therefore may be the most  
  
Pleasure can not be automated? Enjoying food. I met some one building an app  
  
Don&#8217;t make me think.  
Don&#8217;t make me have too many choices but don&#8217;t take away

 [1]: https://www.goodreads.com/work/quotes/100074
 [2]: https://neuralink.com/
 [3]: https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/a-brain-scanner-combined-with-an-ai-language-model-can-provide-a-glimpse-into-your-thoughts/
 [4]: https://undark.org/2024/01/03/brain-computer-neurorights/
 [5]: https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.01933